In this lecture, I'm going to give you an overview of Kulash, which is quality of service, and when
people talk about cures in general, they're usually referring to cuing.
So that's going to be the main focus of this lecture.
The original driver for kulaks was voice over IP.
And the first thing I'll do here is explain why there was a need for quality of service to way back
in the day.
I'm sure you'll still see some networks doing this today.
And I was well, there was a dedicated voice, video and data networks, and maybe the company didn't
have video, but for sure they would have data and voice for their data network.
They would have a standard IP one like we covered in the wine section earlier for their food network.
They would be connected to the local telephone provider, the local phone company, and for that they
would have phones under desks in their offices and there would usually be PBX in the office as well,
which is used to control the phones.
And the PBX would be connected up to the telephone company for video calls if they had Viljoen points.
And typically that would be connected up over an ISDN network.
Integrated Services Digital Network is what it stands for and ISDN would be provided by the phone company
as well.
And you can see from the diagram here that for voice video on the three networks are completely physically
separate from each other.
The data network is dedicated for the ISDN network, is dedicated for video and the phone network.
The Public Switch Telephony Network with the telco is dedicated for voice calls.
So because of this, if there's a problem with any of those, it's not going to affect the other two.
Now, what you'll find most often in modern networks is converged networks where the company is running
voice video and data all over the same underlying physical network infrastructure.
You can see the diagram here now that we've got IP phones on the desks and they're going to be connected
to an IP PBX like the Cisco Unified Communications Manager.
We've got IP video and points as well.
And we've got our standard IP servers and workstations and everything is connected to the same underlying
network which is running over an IP infrastructure.
Now, you maybe noticed something missing here in the last slide.
We were able to call external people like customers and suppliers through the phone company as well.
And this example here, you'll see that everything is on the company's corporate IP wan so they can
send data, voice video and make phone calls between offices.
But right now, they wouldn't be able to call customers or suppliers.
So we're going to still need to be connected to the local phone company as well for that connection
that could be using a traditional phone connection.
You would see in an office like Voice E 131 connection with a lot of modern phone providers will actually
offer voice over IP as well.
And it will be using a zip connection which ties session initiated protocol.
That's really not important here.
The thing that's important here is that the voice, the video and the data is all running over that
same shared network infrastructure between the different offices.
So the effects of this on old traditional networks, the voice and video had their own physically separate
network infrastructure and they did not impact each other.
If there's a problem on the data network that is not going to affect the voice network, people can
still make phone calls as normal on modern networks, however, data, voice and video run over the
same shared physical infrastructure.
And the reason that companies will do that now is because it enables cost savings, because rather than
having three separate networks, you can run everything over that same shared network.
And it also enables advanced features for voice on video.
For example, you'll see with modern video endpoints, they can integrate with other collaboration software.
They can do things like you, shared presentations over WebEx, over the network.
It can also integrate with your call center if you have one and stuff like that as well.
So lowered costs and increased features.
But a potential problem with this now is that the voice and video are all fighting for the same shared
bandwidth or not same shared physical network and voice and video.
You have got quality requirements for voice and traditional standard definition video packets.
The recommended requirements to be an acceptable quality call are that the latency, which is another
word for delay, should be up to 150 milliseconds.
No more of a not the jitter, which is variation in delay, no more than 30 milliseconds.
I'll explain.
Not a bit more detail in a second, but there's no more than one percent of your pockets are lost.
Now, those are one way requirements, meaning that a pocket sent from a phone in the HQ has 150 milliseconds
to reach the and the branch and vice versa.
So we go back in the diagram.
You see we've got our phones in the each cube.
I'm going to make a phone call from HQ to the phone in the branch.
Those packets coming from from the phone in the HQ are where your spoken voice is coded inside.
They've got 150 milliseconds to make it to the phone in the branch.
OK, so the jitter should be no more than 30 milliseconds.
Jitter is variation in delay.
So to give you an example of especially those packets, we've got multiple packets going from the HQ
phone to the branch for.
And they're arriving now.
Now, now, now, now, now, now, now.
That was variation in delay.
It's going to be multiple pockets.
And if a delay between the first, the second and the third packet varies, that is your jitter.
Your IP phones have got a built-In gifter buffer.
They don't immediately play the packets out to your ear because there's always going to be some gifter
there.
And it would literally sound jittery if the.
So the IP phones will smooth out the rate of packets being received to make it sound natural, but if
Jeter goes above 30 milliseconds, it's going to overrun Bill in Jerrard Buffer and it's going to make
a bad quality call.
Now, you've all seen bad quality calls.
If you watch a news report coming from a war zone or somewhere like that, usually they'll be using
a satellite phone and satellite is famously a highly she connection.
So that's why when you see the news report, they'll always make the apology, the star, about the
quality of the call.
And you'll see it will be choppy and the audio will be bad quality about the kind of thing that will
happen if you don't meet those requirements for your voice on your video.
So that was for Standard IP Tiffany voice and standard definition video.
If you're using high definition video, it's got stricter requirements where it can handle less loss
with high definition video, it uses very high compression.
So if you lose any pockets at all, that will be noticeable in the video.
OK, so what are we going to do about this, or how can this cause a problem?
So first thing to tell you about here is the default queuing mechanism on a router and on switches as
well, which is first in, first out.
So whenever congestion is experienced on or off, switch packets are sent out in a first in first.
I just pfeifle minor by default and congestion can be experienced whenever it's possible for pockets
to be coming in quicker than they can be sent out to.
An example would be on your an age where you've got a fast interface on the inside and you've got a
smoother interface on the outside like you see in the example here.
So on the right here, it's got fast Ethernet on the inside, 100 megabits per second, the outside
interface.
And our example was an E one.
So its speed is two megabits per second.
It's possible for traffic to be coming in at a rate up to 100 megabits per second.
But the router can only physically send traffic out at a rate of up to two megabits per second.
So if traffic is coming in at a rate higher than two megabits per second, we can't send out as quickly
as it comes in.
And it's going to have to.
CUV was pocket's up another place where you would see congestion.
So this is a really common place.
You'll see it most likely place.
You'll see congestion is on your winegrowers because typically they will have faster speed interfaces
on the inside than on the outside.
You can also see it in your compas on your switches as well, because you're going to have more workstations
connected in the axis layer when you've got uplinks going up to the top.
So engelen in your compas to believe it will be less congestion because there are high speed interfaces
there, but there can still be congestion there as well.
Another example, we're going to use a wide range right here because that's where you're going to see
usually there the main effect of congestion and also where QOL users can usually help the most as well.
So this is still an example where we had the HQ on the left in the diagram on the branch office in the
right, and this is the HQ and we're going to be sending traffic from left to right to the branch.
So let's look what happens first when we don't have congestion.
So we've got traffic coming in on the inside interface or not router, which is going over to our external
offices.
And because we're running a converged network here, we've got both voice and video on their pockets
are going to be coming in.
And the example you see, the deep pockets are blue and they tend to be bigger than your voice pockets,
which are usually small but always small pockets.
So our voice pockets are small green ones.
And the first example, traffic is coming in at a rate less than two megabits per second.
And what will happen when the office isn't very busy?
When that happens, we are concerned traffic immediately as it is received.
So in that case, there is no congestion at all.
Traffic is passing very quickly through the OR we're not going to have any problems there.
But we got a problem when traffic comes in at a rate higher than two megabits per second.
So you can see in the example here, we've got that larger pocket, the front, the blue one, a little
green voice pocket behind there than a couple of data pockets.
And then we've got a green voice pocket coming in again and we'll order our pockets going to come in.
Depends on what people are doing.
If somebody is making a phone call, voice pockets are going to be coming in.
If somebody's sending their data, pockets are going to come in and they're going to come in in whatever
order users are taking those options.
And because traffic is coming in at a rate faster than two megabits per second, as you see in the diagram
here, the router can't send out quickly enough.
It can't keep up.
So when that happens, we will buffer traffic, meaning it will queue up and pockets wait in the queue
to go out.
The default queuing mechanism is that traffic gets sent out in the same order, but it comes in its
first in, first out.
So you can see in the queue here we've got got the pocket that came in first is at the front of the
queue.
It's going out right now.
And then we've got the voice pocket, the two pocket and the other voice pocket behind their.
And this is congestion in our right or whenever you've got park is being cued up, that is congestion
and this causes delay to the pockets as we wait in the queue.
Also, as the size of a queue changes, it causes jitter.
If the queues enlargement was going to be long, it's going to take pockets and longer to get to the
front of the queue.
And when the queue is, Shah is going to take less time.
So having pockets in the queue and variable size of a queue is going to cause Wichita to go up and down
as well.
And there's a limit to the size of the queue.
There's only so much memory.
And a writer, if a pocket arrives when the queue is full, then the voter is going to drop it.
So the congestion, it causes delay as pockets are waiting in the queue, it causes jitter as pockets
are waiting in the queue again in the queue is changing size and it's causing loss when the queue is
full and pockets are trying to get in, the back are getting dropped.
And our voice and video calls and also applications will be unacceptable quality if they do not meet
their daily jitter and loss requirements, and having heuzenroeder is going to cause our voice and video
pockets to not meet those requirements.
And it's going to cause bad quality calls when you're working in it.
This is going to give you a big issue, because way back in the day when voice and video were on their
own, separate dedicated networks users are used to, they can always pick up the phone and make a phone
call.
And it's always going to be a good quality call.
So you really you have to provide the same quality on modern networks as well.
So how can we mitigate congestion first way we can do it?
The easiest way is we can add more bandwidth if we had 100 meg interface on the outside as well as on
the inside.
And whenever traffic comes in, we can send it immediately.
There's not going to be any congestion.
So the best way to fix a congestion problem is by adding more bandwidth.
But the problem is that that costs money.
That outside interface is connected through your service provider.
And the more bandwidth you want, the more money they're going to charge you for it.
So another way that we can help mitigate congestion is by using quality of service techniques.
And what quality of service does is it gives better service to the traffic that needs it.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to configure cuing on our router and we're going to give
better service to our voice pockets.
It's the same scenario before where we've got traffic coming in at a rate higher than two megabits per
second.
The data pocket comes in first, then a little voice pocket, then two data pockets and then the voice
pocket.
So we've got congestion, not traffic goes in the queue.
But the difference now is if I go back that one slide again, you see it was blue, green, blue, blue,
green.
Now, what we do with queuing is we put our voice pockets straight to the front of the queue whenever
there is a queue.
And so the voice pockets jump in front of the data pockets, the recognize voice, voice pockets, and
it moves into the front of the queue and that minimizes their delay.
They're not further back in the queue for the front.
So they're going to be in queue for last time.
We're going to get out of it quicker.
That's going to minimise or delay the jitter on velocity.
So what are the effects of doing this?
Well, like I just said, it reduces latency, the loss for particular traffic.
You're going to give better service to your voice and video traffic and maybe some mission critical
applications.
The original driver for us was voice over IP, but it can be used to give better service to important
the applications as well.
Thing is, if you're giving one type of traffic better service on the same link, the same bomb, if
you had before, then the other traffic types must get worse service.
We jumped that voice pocket to the front of the queue, but that's actually moving our data packets
further back in the queue.
So voice is going to get better service, but they get worse service.
The point is to give each type of traffic the service it requires.
If a user is trying to open up a Web page on the Internet and not takes one second driver in half a
second to know as the user is not going, it is not going to even notice the difference.
It doesn't matter if you don't a phone call and somebody's voice start sending jerky and there's gaps
in it and you can't understand.
And that's a big deal, which means that the phone call doesn't work.
So it's important to give voice and video really good service so it gets equal.
It requires it doesn't matter if it gets a little less quality service because users won't actually
know for application anyway.
Kulash is not a magic bullet and it's designed to mitigate temporary periods of congestion.
If a link is permanently congested, then you're going to have bad quality voice video and applications
on that link.
So what you need to do is upgrade the link.
What you'll often see companies do is they'll have target utilization.
80 percent is not uncommon.
So they'll look for an average utilization of 80 percent on the link.
But you know that the network gets busier at some times of day, like on Monday morning at nine p.m.
It's probably going to be busier than it is at three p.m. on a Friday.
So you could put in enough bandwidth.
The link never, ever gets congested, but that would be really expensive.
And what you can do is balance the cost by having the link running, for example, 80 percent utilization
on average, you know that it will sometimes burst up to 100 percent and the link will be congested
for voice temporary.
Ease of congestion, unable kulash, see your voice and your video and the applications get the service
they require.
OK, that was an overview of.
I'll see you in the next lecture where we'll start getting a bit deeper.